S/PV.5490
15 July 2006
Democratic People's Republic of Korea

Mr. Wang Guangya

The  Chinese  delegation  welcomes  the  draft  resolution  
on   the   launching   of   missiles   by   the   Democratic   
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  unanimously  adopted  by  
the Security Council earlier.  
On   5   July   2006   local   time,   the   Democratic   
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  launched  a  number  of  
missiles  without  adequate  advance  notification,  which  
caused     extensive     concern     in     the     international     
community. Many countries have expressed their grave 
concern  at  that  negative  development.  They  are  afraid  
that   it   will   have   a   negative   impact   on   peace   and   
stability  in  North-East  Asia,  especially  on  the  Korean  
peninsula. 
As  a  close  neighbour  of  the  Democratic  People’s  
Republic  of  Korea,  China  is  gravely  concerned  about  
the newly emerged complicating factors on the Korean 
peninsula.   China   has   always   been   committed   to   
maintaining    peace    and    stability    on    the    Korean    
peninsula  and  has  insisted  on  resolving  the  relevant  
issues  through  peaceful  dialogue  and  negotiations.  We  
oppose  any  acts  leading  to  tension  on  the  Korean  
peninsula.  We  hope  that  all  the  parties  concerned  will  
keep  in  mind  the  overall  interests  and  make  a  greater  
contribution   to   peace   and   stability   on   the   Korean   
peninsula.  The  Chinese  side  is  ready  to  make  joint  
efforts  with  all  the  parties  concerned  to  overcome  
difficulties,  create  the  right  conditions,  promote  the  
six-party  talks  and  jointly  
maintain  peace  and  stability  
on the Korean peninsula and in North-East Asia. 
Ever  since  discussions  started  in  the  Security  
Council on the launching of missiles by the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  China  has  acted  in  a  
persistent  manner  to  achieve  two  major  objectives,  
namely,  to  maintain  peace  
and  stability  on  the  Korean  
peninsula  and  to  keep  the  Security  Council  united.  We  
have  consistently  advocated  that  the  Council  respond  
in  an  appropriate  manner  as  soon  as  possible,  send  a  
unified    message    to    the    international    community,    
reactivate  a  new  round  of  diplomatic  efforts  and  bring  
about the early resumption of the six-party talks. 
China  has  adopted  a  resp
onsible  attitude  and  is  
firmly  opposed  to  forcing  through  a  vote  on  a  draft  
resolution that is not conducive to unity and that would 
further  complicate  and  aggravate  the  situation,  cause  
grave  consequenc
es  for  peace  and  stability  on  the  
Korean  peninsula  and  create  enormous  obstacles  for  
the   six-party   talks   and   other   important   diplomatic   
endeavours. 
At  the  same  time,  China  and  Russia  put  forward  
elements   for   a   draft   presidential   statement   and,   
subsequently,    for    a    draft    resolution.    We    made    
constructive  and  vigorous  efforts  to  seek  consensus  on  
this issue among Security Council members. 
Under  the  current  circumstances,  China  urges  all  
the  parties  concerned  to  exercise  restraint.  We  are  
opposed  to  any  acts  leading  to  further  tension  on  the  
Korean peninsula. We hope that the resolution that has 
just been adopted will help 
all the parties concerned to 
act   in   a   calm   manner   and   to   continue   diplomatic   
endeavours   aimed   at   the   denuclearization   of   the   
Korean  peninsula  and  the  normalization  of  relations  
between  the  countries  concerned.  Maintaining  peace  
and stability on the Korean peninsula is in the common 
interests of the international community and the North-
East  Asian  countries  and  is  the  fundamental  starting  
point  for  China  in  handling  Korean  peninsula  affairs.  
China  will  continue  to  make  steadfast  efforts  to  that  
end. 
