14 October 2006
Non-proliferation/Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
S/PV.5551

         Mr.         Wang         Guangya
The  Security  Council  has  just  adopted  a  resolution  on  
the  nuclear  test  by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  
of Korea. 
On  9  October  2006,  the  Democratic  People’s  
Republic  of  Korea  flagrantly  conducted  a  nuclear  test  
in    disregard    of    the    common    opposition    of    the    
international   community.   This   is   not   conducive   to   
peace and stability in North-East Asia. The Ministry of 
Foreign  Affairs  of  China  issued  a  statement  on  the  
same  day  and  expressed  firm  opposition  to  this  act.  
Proceeding from the overall interests of bringing about 
denuclearization    of    the    Korean    peninsula    and    
maintaining    peace    and    stability    on    the    Korean    
peninsula  and  in  North-East  Asia,  China  supports  the  
Security   Council   in   making   firm   and   appropriate   
response.  We  believe  that  the  action  of  the  Security  
Council  should  both  indicate  the  firm  position  of  the  
international   community   and   help   create   enabling   
conditions   for   the   final   peaceful   solution   to   the   
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  nuclear  issue  
through  dialogue.  As  the  resolution  basically  reflects  
the aforementioned spirit, the Chinese delegation voted 
in favour of it. 
China  would  like  to  reiterate  here  that  sanctions  
in  themselves  are  not  the  end.  As  stipulated  by  the  
relevant provisions of the resolution, if the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea complies with the relevant 
requests  of  the  resolution,  the  Security  Council  will  
suspend   or   lift   sanctions   
against   the   Democratic   
People’s Republic of Korea.  
At the same time, we wish to point out that China 
does not approve of the practice of inspecting cargo to 
and  from  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  
We   therefore   have   reservations   about   the   relevant   
provisions  of  the  resolution.  China  strongly  urges  the  
countries concerned to adopt a prudent and responsible 
attitude  in  this  regard  and  to  refrain  from  taking  any  
provocative steps that may intensify the tension. 
The   Chinese   Government   has   all   along   been   
committed  to  bringing  about  
the  denuclearization  of  
the   Korean   peninsula   and   maintaining   peace   and   
stability  on  the  Korean  peninsula  and  in  North-East  
Asia.  We  have  always  advocated  seeking  a  peaceful  
solution  to  the  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula  
through  diplomatic  means.  China  has  made  enormous  
and unremitting efforts to that end. It initiated the Six-
Party  Talks  and  pushed  parties  concerned  to  reach  the  
Joint   Statement   of   September   2005.   Although   the   
negative   development   of   the   Democratic   People’s   
Republic   of   Korea   nuclear   test   has   emerged,   our   
policies  as  just  outlined  re
main  unchanged.  We  still  
believe that the Six-Party Talks are the realistic way to 
handle  the  relevant  issues.  We  also  firmly  oppose  the  
use  of  force.  China  has  noted  with  satisfaction  that  in  
condemning   the   nuclear   test   of   the   Democratic   
People’s Republic of Korea, the parties concerned have 
all  indicated  the  importance  of  adhering  to  diplomatic  
efforts. 
         China     believes     that     under     the     current     
circumstances  we  should  unswervingly  stick  to  the  
objective   of   the   denuclearization   of   the   Korean   
peninsula,  oppose  nuclear  proliferation,  adhere  to  the  
general   direction   of   resolving   the   issue   through   
peaceful  dialogue  and  negotiation,  avoid  any  acts  that  
may  cause  the  tension  to  escalate  and  the  situation  to  
get  out  of  control,  and  main
tain  peace  and  stability  on  
the Korean peninsula and in North-East Asia. This is in 
the  common  interests  of  all  the  parties  concerned.  All  
the parties should make vigorous and positive efforts to 
this  end.  China  is  ready  and  willing  to  strengthen  
consultations   and   coordination   with   other   parties   
concerned  so  as  to  respond  in  a  cool-headed  manner,  
push forward the six-party process and continue to play 
a     constructive     role     in     bringing     about     the     
denuclearization    of    the    Korean    peninsula    and 
maintaining    peace    and    stability    on    the    Korean    
peninsula and in North-East Asia
