12 June 2009
Non-proliferation/Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
S/PV.6141

Mr.  Zhang  Yesui

The  Security  Council  has  just  adopted  resolution  1874  
(2009) on the nuclear test conducted by the Democratic 
People’s    Republic    of    Korea.    On    25    May,    the    
Democratic   People’s   Republic   of   Korea   conducted   
another   nuclear   test   in   disregard   of   the   common   
objection  of  the  international  community.  The  Chinese  
Ministry   for   Foreign   Affairs   issued   a   statement   
expressing its firm opposition. 
We    strongly    urge    the    Democratic    People’s    
Republic   of   Korea   to   honour   its   commitment   to   
denuclearization,  cease  all  actions  that  may  exacerbate  
the situation and return to th
e Six-Party Talks. China is 
committed, as always, to sa
feguarding the international 
nuclear    non-proliferation    regime,    promoting    the    
denuclearization    of    the    Korean    peninsula    and    
maintaining peace and stability there and in North-East 
Asia. 
In     conducting     another     nuclear     test,     the     
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  violated  the  
relevant  resolutions  of  the  Security  Council,  impaired  
the   effectiveness   of   the   
international   nuclear   non-
proliferation  regime  and  af
fected  regional  peace  and  
stability.   We   support   an   appropriate   and   balanced   
reaction  of  the  Security  Council  to  the  Democratic  
People’s Republic of Korea’s nuclear test. 
The  provisions  of  resolution  1874  (2009)  are  in  
line  with  Article  41  of  Ch
apter  VII  of  the  United  
Nations  Charter.  The  resolution  not  only  demonstrates  
the  international  community’s  firm  opposition  to  the  
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s  nuclear  test,  
but  also  sends  a  positive  signal  to  that  country.  It  
reflects  the  firm  determinati
on  of  the  Security  Council  
to  resolve  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  
nuclear    issue    peacefully    through    dialogue    and    
negotiation.  In  that  context,  the  Chinese  delegation  
voted in favour of resolution 1874 (2009). 
It   should   be   stressed   that   the   sovereignty,   
territorial  integrity  and  le
gitimate  security  concerns  
and  development  interests  of  the  Democratic  People’s  
Republic  of  Korea  must  be  respected.  Once  it  returns  
to   the   Treaty   on   the   Non-Proliferation   of   Nuclear   
Weapons,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  
as  a  State  party,  will  enjoy  the  right  to  enjoy  the  
peaceful uses of nuclear energy. The Security Council’s 
actions   should   not   adversely   impact   the   economic   
viability   or   the   development   of   the   Democratic   
People’s   Republic   of   Korea   or   the   delivery   of   
humanitarian assistance to the country. 
As    indicated    in    the    relevant    paragraph    of    
resolution  1874  (2009),  if  the  Democratic  People’s  
Republic    of    Korea    complie
s    with    the    relevant    
provisions  of  the  resolution,  the  Security  Council  will  
review the appropriateness of suspending or lifting the 
measures it has imposed. 
I  wish  to  stress  that  the  issue  of  cargo  inspection  
is   complex   and   sensitive.   Countries   need   to   act   
prudently  and  in  strict  accordance  with  domestic  and  
international  law  and  on  the  condition  of  reasonable  
grounds  and  sufficient  evidence.  All  parties  should  
refrain  from  any  word  or  deed  that  could  exacerbate  
the  conflict.  Under  no  circumstances  should  force  be  
used or threatened. 
The    Chinese    Government    has    consistently    
advocated a peaceful settlement of the nuclear issue on 
the  Korean  peninsula  through  political  and  diplomatic  
means. China has made tremendous efforts to that end. 
We initiated the Six-Party Talks and pushed for a joint 
statement by the six parties in September 2005. Thanks 
to  the  concerted  efforts  of  
all  parties,  the  Six-Party  
Talks  made  some  initial  progr
ess.  At  present,  despite  
the  second  nuclear  test  undertaken  by  the  Democratic  
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  —  which  represents  a  
negative  development  —  we  remain  of  the  view  that  
Security Council actions are not all about sanctions and 
that political and diplomatic means are the only way to 
resolve       the       relevant       issues,       achieve       the       
denuclearization of the Korean peninsula and safeguard 
peace and stability in North-East Asia. 
In    the    current    circumstances,    the    parties    
concerned  should  remain  calm,  exercise  restraint  and  
refrain  from  actions  that  may  aggravate  the  situation.  
Such  behaviour  would  serve  the  common  interests  of  
all  parties.  China  will  conti
nue  to  act  in  a  responsible  
and  constructive  manner  to  strengthen  contacts  among  
the  parties  concerned,  address  the  issue  appropriately,  
work  for  an  early  resumption  of  the  Six-Party  Talks  
and     play     an     active     role     in     achieving     the     
denuclearization    of    the    Korean    peninsula    and    
maintaining peace and stability there and in North-East 
Asia. 
