S / P V.7 3 5 3
The situation in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
23/12/2014

Mr.  Liu  Jieyi  

China  
is  opposed  to  exploiting  the  existence  of  large-scale  
violations  of  human  rights  in  the  Democratic  People’s  
Republic  of  Korea  as  a  reason  to  include  the  situation  
in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  in  the  
agenda  of  the  Security  Council.  The  Charter  of  the  
United  Nations  stipulates  explicitly  that  the  primary  
responsibility  of  the  Security  Council  is  to  maintain  
international  peace  and  security.  The  United  Nations  
organs   each   have   their   own   respective   functions   
and  mandates.  The  Security  Council  is  not  a  forum  
designed  for  involvement  in  human  rights  issues,  and  
still  less  should  human  rights  issues  be  politicized.  
Currently,  international  peace  and  security  are  faced  
with   numerous   daunting   challenges.   The   Security   
Council should strictly abide by its responsibilities and 
concentrate  on  addressing  issues  that  really  concern  
international peace and security.
The  situation  on  the  Korean  peninsula  remains  
complex   and   sensitive.   Upholding   the   goal   of   the   
denuclearization  of  the  peninsula,  maintaining  peace  
and stability on the peninsula and insisting on dialogue 
and  consultations  as  a  way  to  resolve  issues  is  in  the  
common  interests  of  all  parties  concerned  and  should  
be the direction towards which all parties should work 
together.   The   Security   Council   should   work   more   
to  facilitate  dialogue  and  ease  tensions  and  refrain  
from  doing  anything  that  might  cause  an  escalation  
of  tensions.  The  Security  Council’s  inclusion  of  the  
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  situation  on  
its  agenda  in  order  to  involve  itself  of  the  situation  of  
human  rights  in  that  country  will  work  against  those  
goals and can only do harm rather than good.
