02/03/2016
S/PV
.
7638
Non-proliferation/Democratic People’s Republic of Korea

Mr. Liu Jieyi

On  
6 January, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, in 
defiance of the universal opposition of the international 
community,  once  again  conducted  a  nuclear  test,  and  
on  7  February  used  ballistic  technology  to  launch  a  
satellite in a series of violations of the relevant Security 
Council  resolutions.  China  has  expressed  its  explicit  
opposition to those actions.
China  has  always  insisted  on  the  denuclearization  
of  the  Korean  peninsula,  insisted  on  the  maintenance  
of  peace  and  stability  on  the  peninsula  and  insisted  
on     resolving     problems     through     dialogue     and     
consultations.  Resolution  2270  (2016),  adopted  by  the  
Council  today,  embodies  the  principles  inherent  in  
those  three  “insists”.  The  resolution  demonstrates  the  
international   community’s   seriousness   in   opposing   
the  further  development  of  the  nuclear  and  missile  
capacity of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
and  safeguarding  the  international  non-proliferation  
regime  and  reaffirms  the  commitment  to  seeking  a  
solution  to  the  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula  
through  dialogue  and  consultations  and  to  supporting  
the  resumption  of  the  Six-Party  Talks  and  the  Joint  
Statement  of  19  September  2005,  thus  facilitating  the  
effort to seek a peaceful solution to the nuclear issue on 
the Korean peninsula.
China   has   always   advocated   for   the   peaceful   
settlement   of   international   disputes   and   hot-spot   
issues  through  political  and  diplomatic  means  such  as  
dialogue and negotiations. Sanctions are not an end in 
themselves,  and  Security  Council  resolutions  cannot  
fundamentally resolve the nuclear issue on the Korean 
peninsula. Today’s resolution should be a new starting 
point,  paving  the  way  for  a  political  settlement  of  the  
nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula.
History has demonstrated repeatedly that dialogue 
and negotiations represent the only right way to address 
the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula if we are to 
achieve  an  early  improvement  of  the  situation  on  the  
ground  and  explore  viable  ways  to  resolve  the  matter.  
China  urges  the  parties  concerned  to  push  forward  in  
parallel  the  negotiations  to  advance  denuclearization  
and  replace  the  peace  armistice  mechanism  with  a  
peace mechanism. While keeping the general direction 
of  denuclearization,  this  approach  accommodates  in  a  
balanced way the main concerns of the parties involved, 
helps find a way towards the resumption of talks and is 
practicable.  China  is  willing  to  work  with  the  parties  
concerned to explore in depth specific steps to put this 
idea into practice and hopes that all parties concerned 
will work together to this end.
As a close neighbour to the Korean peninsula and a 
State that bears an important responsibility for stability 
there, China has always insisted on the overall goal of 
denuclearization  of  the  peninsula,  opposed  conflicts  
and  chaos  in  that  area  and  worked  to  safeguard  the  
legitimate security interests of itself and other countries 
of the region. At this moment, all the parties concerned 
should  avoid  actions  that  will  further  aggravate  the  
tensions on the ground. China opposes the deployment 
of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense anti-missile 
system on the Korean peninsula because such an action 
harms  the  strategic  security  interests  of  China  and  
other  countries  of  the  region,  goes  against  the  goal  
of  maintaining  peace,  security  and  stability  of  the  
peninsula  and  will  seriously  undermine  the  efforts  of  
the international community to find a political solution 
to the question of the Korean peninsula.
Currently, the situation on the Korean peninsula is 
highly  complex  and  sensitive,  which  makes  it  all  the  
more necessary for us to keep calm and use diplomatic 
wisdom.  China  hopes  that  the  parties  concerned  will  
meet China half way, always keeping in mind the overall 
need to maintain the peace and stability of the Korean 
peninsula   and   North-East   Asia,   make   determined   
efforts  to  the  dispel  the  dark  cloud  of  war,  pool  our  
wisdom   and   actively   seek   common   understanding   
and   work   together   for   the   denuclearization   of   the   
Korean   peninsula.   China   will   continue   to   take   a   
responsible approach to enhancing communication and 
coordination  with  the  parties  concerned  and  play  an  
active and constructive role for an early realization of 
lasting stability and peace on the Korean peninsula.
