S / P V.7 8 21
Non-proliferation/Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
30/11/2016

Mr.  Liu  Jieyi  

On 9  September,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  
Korea conducted yet another nuclear test, in defiance of 
the universal objections of the international community. 
The  Government  of  China  is  firmly  opposed  to  such  
acts.  The  Council’s  adoption  today  of  resolution  2321  
(2016)  ref lects  the  international  community’s  united  
position  against  the  development  of  nuclear  missile  
programmes   by   the   Democratic   People’s   Republic   
of  Korea  and  in  support  of  the  international  nuclear  
non-proliferation  regime.  The  resolution  reaffirms  the  
importance of safeguarding peace and stability on the 
Korean  peninsula  and  in  North-East  Asia,  commits  
to  seeking  a  solution  to  the  issue  through  peaceful,  
diplomatic and political means, supports the resumption 
of  the  Six-Party  Talks  and  the  commitments  made  in  
the  joint  statement  of  19  September,  and  emphasizes  
the importance of easing tensions on the peninsula for 
all parties concerned.
As the resolution notes, the sanctions measures are 
not  aimed  at  worsening  the  humanitarian  situation  in  
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, harming its 
people’s livelihoods or affecting normal economic and 
trade  activities.  China  urges  the  parties  concerned  to  
work to effectively implement the resolution’s relevant 
provisions in their entirety. Since the beginning of the 
year,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has  
conducted  two  nuclear  tests  and  multiple  ballistic-
missile    launches.    However,    certain    parties    have    
continued  to  strengthen  their  military  deployments,  
increase  their  military  presence  and  scale  up  military  
exercises,   and   the   confrontation   on   the   peninsula   
has  intensified  into  a  vicious  circle  as  a  result.  That  
situation must change as soon as possible.
As a near neighbour of the Korean peninsula, China 
has consistently insisted that it should be denuclearized 
and  its  peace  and  stability  upheld.  We  have  always  
called  for  the  issue  to  be  resolved  through  dialogue  
and  consultations  and  have  fought  against  turmoil  
and conflict. We are opposed to the deployment of the 
Terminal  High  Altitude  Area  Defense  anti-ballistic  
missile   system   on   the   peninsula,   as   it   seriously   
undermines the strategic security interests of China and 
other countries of the region and disturbs the regional 
strategic  balance.  It  is  neither  conducive  to  achieving  
the  goal  of  denuclearizing  the  Korean  peninsula  nor  
helpful to the maintenance of peace and stability there.
China urges the parties concerned to stop forthwith 
the  related  deployment  process.  The  current  situation  
on the Korean peninsula is sensitive, complex and dire. 
All parties must look at the big picture, meet each other 
halfway  and  avoid  any  rhetoric  or  action  that  might  
exacerbate  tension.  The  top  priority  for  the  parties  
concerned  is  to  resume  dialogue  and  negotiations  and  
relaunch  the  Six-Party  Talks  as  soon  as  possible  in  
order  to  work  together  in  a  genuine  effort  to  advance  
the  denuclearization  process  and  achieve  peace  and  
stability on the Korean peninsula.
China urges the parties concerned to push forward 
in parallel the negotiations on denuclearization, on one 
hand,  and  the  replacement  of  armistice  with  a  peace  
treaty,  on  the  other.  China  will  persist  in  advancing  
dialogue  and  consultations  with  a  view  to  solving  the  
problems  related  to  the  Korean  peninsula  within  the  
framework  of  the  Six-Party  Talks,  thereby  playing  a  
positive  and  constructive  role  in  achieving  enduring  
peace and stability on the Korean peninsula at an early 
date.
