S / P V.7 8 3 0
The situation in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
09/12/2016

Mr. Liu Jieyi 

China is 
opposed to the Security Council discussing the situation 
of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea. The Charter of the United Nations stipulates in 
no  uncertain  terms  that  the  primary  responsibility  of  
the Security Council is the maintenance of international 
peace  and  security.  The  Security  Council  is  not  a  
forum  for  discussing  human  rights  issues,  still  less  
for the politicization of such issues. Given the current 
context,  in  which  international  peace  and  security  are  
facing a plethora of dire challenges, the Council should 
scrupulously  honour  its  responsibility  and  focus  on  
issues related to international peace and security with 
undivided attention.
China consistently stands for the decnuclearization 
of  the  Korean  peninsula  and  insists  that  it  be  kept  
peaceful   and   stable   and   that   solutions   be   sought   
through dialogue and consultation. We shall not allow 
the peninsula to be torn asunder or riven with turmoil 
in  any  circumstances.  Our  position  is  in  line  with  the  
common   interests   of   the   international   community   
and  all  parties,  and  should  be  the  common  goal  of  
everyone’s efforts.
The  discussion  of  the  situation  of  human  rights  
in   the   Democratic   People’s   Republic   of   Korea   is   
contrary and detrimental to that goal and of no benefit 
whatsoever.  The  current  situation  in  the  peninsula  is  
complex, sensitive and dire. China hopes that Council 
members and other parties concerned will focus on the 
big picture, meet each other half way, do more to ease 
tensions  on  the  peninsula,  and  avoid  any  rhetoric  or  
action that could provoke or escalate tensions.
The  top  priority  for  the  moment  is  to  resume  
dialogue and negotiations among the parties as soon as 
possible, reopen the Six-Party Talks, jointly safeguard 
the  process  of  denuclearizing  the  peninsula  and  make  
a  genuine  effort  to  ensure  stability  and  peace  on  the  
peninsula. China will push for dialogue and consultation 
so  as  to  resolve  the  relevant  issues  on  the  peninsula  
within  the  framework  of  the  Six-Party  Talks,  in  order  
to  make  a  positive  and  constructive  contribution  to  
stability and peace on the peninsula at an early date.
