28/04/2017
Non-proliferation/Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
S/PV
.
7932

Mr.  Wang  Yi  
(China)  (
spoke  in  Chinese
): 
The continued escalation of tensions on the Korean peninsula 
in  recent  times  has  cause  widespread  concerns  in  
the  international  community.  If  the  tensions  on  the  
peninsula  are  not  kept  under  control,  in  particular  in  
the  case  of  unexpected  events,  it  is  highly  likely  that  
the situation will take a drastic turn for the worse and 
spiral  out  of  control.  There  is  no  lack  of  such  painful  
lessons in history; we must remain on high alert.
To  that  end,  China  believes  that  today’s  Security  
Council  meeting  is  necessary.  We  thank  Secretary-
General  Guterres  for  his  briefing  to  the  Council.  We  
hope  that  the  parties  can  reach  consensus  in  order  to  
fully  implement  Security  Council  resolutions  related  
to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, thereby 
intensifying  efforts  to  promote  peace  talks  to  bring  
the  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula  back  on  
the  path  towards  a  negotiated  solution.  With  regard  
to the nuclear issue on the peninsula, China’s position 
is  clear:  no  matter  how  the  situation  may  develop,  we  
must adhere to the following two basic paths.
First,  we  must  remain  committed  to  the  goal  of  
denuclearization,   which   is   the   basic   precondition   
necessary  for  long-term  peace  and  stability  on  the  
peninsula that we must achieve in order to safeguard the 
international  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.  Come  
what  may,  we  should  never  waver  in  our  commitment  
to achieving that goal. To that end, China’s position of 
opposing the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s 
research,   development   and   possession   of   nuclear   
weapons remains rock solid. We are firmly committed 
to the implementation of all relevant Security Council 
resolutions. We urge the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  to  stop  its  nuclear-  and  missile-development  
activities, return to its commitment to denuclearization 
and  honour  its  denuclearization  obligations.  At  the  
same  time,  we  also  call  on  other  parties  concerned  
to    demonstrate    political    wisdom,    take    political    
steps  and  work  constructively  together  towards  the  
denuclearization of the peninsula.
Secondly,  we  must  remain  committed  to  taking  
the  path  of  resolving  issues  through  dialogue  and  
negotiations. The use of force does not solve differences 
and leads only to bigger disasters. As the only solution, 
dialogue  and  negotiations  also  represent  the  sensible  
choice for all parties. Our past experience with regard 
to  resolving  the  nuclear  issue  on  the  peninsula  has  
shown  that  whenever  there  is  recourse  to  dialogue  
and  negotiations,  basic  stability  on  the  peninsula  is  
maintained,  and  efforts  towards  denulcearization  can  
yield results. During the five-year period from 2003 to 
2007,  when  the  parties  were  engaged  in  dialogue  and  
negotiations,  three  joint  documents  were  adopted.  In 
particular, the 19 September joint statement in 2005 set 
out the road map for the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea’s  abandonment  of  all  nuclear  programmes  
and  the  realization  of  peace  on  the  peninsula.  Even  
today,  the  joint  statement  still  carries  major  positive  
significance and has been reaffirmed and acknowledged 
by  all  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea-related  
resolutions adopted by the Security Council.
Since  dialogue  and  negotiations  came  to  a  halt  
in  2008,  the  situation  on  the  peninsula  has  gradually  
spiralled   out   of   control.   The   Democratic   People’s   
Republic  of  Korea  has  accelerated  its  nuclear-missile  
development  process  and  conducted  four  nuclear  tests  
and  dozens  of  missile  launches.  We  therefore  hope  
that all parties will devote greater efforts to seeking a 
political settlement through dialogue and consultations, 
as required by the relevant Security Council resolutions. 
China is not a focal point for resolving the problem on 
the  peninsula.  The  key  to  solving  the  nuclear  issue  
on  the  peninsula  does  not  rest  in  the  hands  of  China.  
However,   as   a   close   neighbouring   country   to   the   
peninsula,  with  a  responsible  attitude  with  regard  to  
peace  and  stability  there  and  in  the  region,  China  has  
made  unrelenting  efforts  and  played  a  unique  role  in  
promoting  a  negotiated  solution  of  the  issue  over  the  
years.  Through  China’s  efforts  and  the  support  of  all  
parties, the three-party talks on the nuclear issue on the 
peninsula was expanded to include six parties.
In   the   current   circumstances,   China   remains   
prepared to work with all parties to contribute anew to 
the settlement of the nuclear issue on the peninsula. In 
view  of  recent  developments  on  the  peninsula,  China  
has put forward a double suspension proposal that builds 
on the dual-track approach, which we proposed earlier. 
The   dual-track   approach   aims   to   promote   parallel   
progress in the denuclearization of the peninsula and the 
establishment  of  a  peace  mechanism  on  the  peninsula  
in   a   synchronized   and   reciprocal   manner,   thereby   
ultimately  achieving  both  goals  together.  The  double  
suspension  proposal,  which  calls  for  the  suspension  
of  nuclear  and  missile  activities  by  the  Democratic  
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  the  suspension  of  
large-scale military exercises by the United States and 
the  Republic  of  Korea,  seeks  to  bring  both  sides  back  
to the negotiating table, thereby initiating the first step 
of that approach.
China’s  proposals  have  taken  into  consideration  
both the short- and long-term goals, while making them 
complementary to one another. While they are designed 
to  address  the  most  pressing  concerns  of  the  parties,  
they also pave the way towards denuclearization. They 
are  consistent  with  the  requirements  of  the  relevant  
Security   Council   resolutions   and   the   fundamental   
interests  of  all  parties,  including  those  of  the  United  
States and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 
The   proposals   are   objective,   impartial,   reasonable   
and  practical,  and  are  gaining  the  understanding  and  
support  of  an  increasing  number  of  countries.  We,  of  
course, also know that some countries might continue 
to have certain doubts.
I would like to point out that the most urgent task 
now  is  to  stop  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  
Korea’s  nuclear  and  missile  development.  To  achieve  
that  goal,  it  is  necessary  to  put  aside  the  debate  over  
who  should  take  the  first  step  and  stop  arguing  over  
who  is  right  and  wrong.  Rather,  we  should  start  from  
the  low-hanging  fruits  and  remove  flash  points  so  
as  to  engender  peace  on  the  peninsula  and  establish  
conditions conducive to stability in the region. In that 
regard, I also want to stress that the state of affairs of 
the  peninsula  issue  is  not  caused  by  any  one  single  
party,  and  it  is  not  realistic  to  ask  one  party  alone  to  
assume   all   the   responsibilities   in   connection   with   
resolving the issue. As President Xi Jinping said, only 
with  all  relevant  parties  shouldering  their  respective  
responsibilities   and   meeting   one   another   half-way   
will  there  be  a  timely  solution  to  the  nuclear  issue  on  
the peninsula.
We  call  upon  all  parties,  especially  those  directly  
concerned by the issue, namely, the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  and  the  United  States,  to  show  a  
sincere  desire  for  dialogue  and  restart  the  dialogue  
process. Furthermore, we look to the Council to build 
further consensus and speak with a more unified voice. 
At the same time, China will remain open to all useful 
proposals  from  the  parties.  All  ideas  conducive  to  
resuming dialogue and negotiations aimed at achieving 
denuclearization  and  maintaining  peace  and  stability  
on  the  peninsula  are  welcomed  for  consideration  in  
our discussions.
As we meet for this special ministerial meeting of 
the Security Council, China calls on all parties to make 
concerted efforts to address two urgent tasks.
First, we call for a de-escalation of the situation on 
the peninsula as rapidly as possible. Given the gravity 
of the situation on the peninsula, China strongly urges 
all parties to remain calm, exercise restraint and avoid 
provocative  rhetoric  or  actions  that  could  lead  to  a  
miscalculation. I want to stress that there is, and should 
be, no double standard with regard to this issue. While 
we  demand  that  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  
Korea observe the relevant Security Council resolutions 
and stop advancing its nuclear and missile development, 
we  also  demand  that  the  United  States,  the  Republic  
of Korea and other parties refrain from conducting, or 
even expanding, military exercises directed against the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Secondly,   all   parties   should   comprehensively   
respect  and  fully  implement  the  Democratic  People’s  
Republic of Korea-related Security Council resolutions. 
In addition to introducing sanctions on the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  the  resolutions  that  have  
been  adopted  to  date  also  call  for  resuming  the  Six-
Party  Talks,  avoiding  an  escalation  of  tensions  and  
committing  to  dialogue.  In  another  words,  imposing  
sanctions   and   resuming   talks   are   both   efforts   to   
implement  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  
We  cannot  choose  one  over  the  other,  or  implement  
only what we see fit. As a response to the accelerated 
progress of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s 
nuclear   and   missile   development,   the   international   
community  needs  to  step  up  non-proliferation  efforts.  
In response to the progressive escalation of tensions on 
the peninsula, it is also necessary for the parties to step 
up efforts to promote peace talks. Those two stepping-
up actions can help promote the peaceful settlement of 
the nuclear issue on the peninsula. The Chinese word for 
crisis contains two characters, which respectively mean 
danger and opportunity. Danger embodies opportunity 
and engenders opportunity. In China’s view, now is the 
time to seriously consider resuming talks.
Before concluding, I would like to reiterate China’s 
firm  opposition  against  the  United  States  deployment  
of  the  Terminal  High  Altitude  Area  Defense  system  
in  the  Republic  of  Korea.  It  is  a  move  that  seriously  
undermines   the   strategic   security   of   China   and   
other  countries  in  the  region  and  damages  trust  and  
cooperation   among   the   parties   in   connection   with   
the  peninsula  issue.  It  is  detrimental  to  achieving  
denuclearization  and  maintaining  long-term  stability  
on  the  peninsula.  China  once  again  urges  the  relevant  
parties to immediately stop the deployment process.
Let us make joint efforts to promote denuclearization 
and uphold stability on the peninsula based on mutual 
respect and trust.
