02/06/2017
Non-proliferation/Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
S/PV
.
7958

Mr. Liu Jieyi 
(China) (
spoke in Chinese
):
Relevant Security Council resolutions include explicit provisions 
against   any   launches   by   the   Democratic   People’s   
Republic  of  Korea  using  ballistic  missile  technology.  
China  is  opposed  to  the  launches  conducted  by  the  
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  Resolution  
2356   (2017),   adopted   by   the   Council   today,   has   
demonstrated  the  united  position  of  the  international  
community  against  the  development  of  nuclear  and  
missile   programmes   by   the   Democratic   People’s   
Republic  of  Korea.  At  the  same  time,  the  resolution  
reiterates  the  importance  of  maintaining  peace  and  
stability  on  the  Korean  peninsula  and  in  North-East  
Asia  at  large,  expresses  a  commitment  to  a  peaceful,  
diplomatic  and  political  solution  to  the  situation  and  
stresses  the  importance  of  reducing  tension  on  the  
peninsula by the parties concerned.
China calls on all parties to fully and comprehensively 
implement  Security  Council  resolutions  related  to  the  
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and strive for a 
peaceful settlement of the nuclear issue on the peninsula 
via  redoubled  efforts  to  promote  non-proliferation,  
peace   and   dialogue.   The   current   situation   on   the   
peninsula  is  complex  and  sensitive.  At  the  same  time,  
there  is  a  critical  window  of  opportunity  for  a  return  
to the right track of seeking a settlement to the nuclear 
issue on the peninsula through dialogue and negotiation. 
It  is  incumbent  upon  all  parties  concerned  to  exercise  
restraint and do more to help ease the tension and build 
mutual trust, rather than to the contrary. 
As  a  close  neighbour  of  the  Korean  peninsula,  
China   has   always   insisted   on   denuclearizing   the   
peninsula,   maintaining   peace   and   stability   on   the   
peninsula and seeking a solution through dialogue and 
negotiations.  China  has  always  been  firmly  opposed  
to  chaos  and  conflict  on  the  peninsula.  Based  on  
developments  on  the  peninsula,  China  has  proposed  
the dual-track approach of promoting parallel progress 
in  denuclearization  efforts  and  the  establishment  of  
a  peace  mechanism  on  the  peninsula.  China  has  also  
put  forward  the  suspension-for-suspension  proposal,  
which would allow for the suspension of nuclear missile 
activities by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
and  the  suspension  of  massive  military  exercises  by  
the  United  States  and  the  Republic  of  Korea.  Those  
proposals are pragmatic and feasible. We hope they will 
be seriously considered and will receive a constructive 
response by the parties concerned. 
For  its  part,  China  is  open  to  helpful  proposals  
by all parties. We hope that all parties concerned will 
work  with  China  to  keep  pushing  for  dialogue  and  
negotiations in order to seek a solution to the problems 
on  the  Korean  peninsula  within  the  framework  of  the  
Six-Party  Talks  and  continue  to  work  actively  and  
constructively towards to goal of early denuclearization 
and lasting peace and security on the Korean peninsula.
