05/07/2017
Non-proliferation/Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
S/PV
.
7996

Liu Jieyi

The  Security  Council  resolutions  regarding  this  
issue contain explicit provisions forbidding any launch 
by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  using  
ballistic-missile  technology.  The  Democratic  People’s  
Republic   of   Korea’s   launch   of   a   ballistic   missile   
on  4  July  was  a  flagrant  violation  of  the  relevant  
Council  resolutions  and  defied  the  will  of  the  entire  
international  community.  China  finds  it  unacceptable  
and strongly urges the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea to abide strictly by the decisions of the Security 
Council and to put a stop to any rhetoric or action that 
might  further  exacerbate  tensions  on  the  peninsula.  
At the same time, we call on all the parties concerned 
to   exercise   restraint,   avoid   provocative   actions   or   
belligerent  rhetoric,  demonstrate  a  desire  for  dialogue  
without conditions and work actively together to defuse 
the tension.
On 4 July, the Heads of State of China and Russia 
exchanged   views   on   the   situation   on   the   Korean   
peninsula and agreed that the nuclear issue there should 
be  resolved  through  dialogue  and  consultation.  Our  
Foreign Ministries issued a joint statement expressing 
China and Russia’s shared position and concern regarding 
the  issue  of  the  Korean  peninsula.  The  statement  laid  
out our two countries’ joint initiative, based on China’s 
two-track  approach,  and  a  suspension-for-suspension  
proposal under Russia’s step-by-step plan. The current 
situation  on  the  peninsula  is  complex  and  sensitive,  
and  the  dialogue  process  is  at  a  standstill.  China  and  
Russia’s joint initiative is aimed at addressing both the 
symptoms and the root causes and at taking integrated 
measures  to  strive  for  a  solution.  It  is  objective,  fair,  
reasonable  and  feasible.  We  hope  that  it  will  have  the  
support  of  the  international  community  and  help  to  
open  a  realistic  route  to  resolving  the  problem  of  the  
Korean peninsula.
China   has   always   insisted   on   the   importance   
of  achieving  the  denuclearization  of  the  peninsula,  
maintaining  peace  and  stability  there  and  seeking  a  
solution  through  dialogue  and  consultation.  We  have  
always been firmly opposed to chaos and conf lict in the 
region, and military means should not be considered an 
option in that regard. The deployment of the Terminal 
High  Altitude  Area  Defense  system  in  North-East  
Asia  seriously  undermines  the  strategic  security  of  
the  countries  of  the  region,  including  China.  As  such,  
it  is  not  conducive  to  denuclearizing  the  peninsula  or  
achieving  regional  peace  and  stability.  China  urges  
the   countries   concerned   to   cancel   its   deployment   
immediately.   The   denuclearization   of   the   Korean   
peninsula  and  the  achievement  of  lasting  peace  and  
stability  there  are  in  the  interests  of  all.  We  hope  that  
the parties concerned will work together with China and 
duly play their roles and shoulder their responsibilities, 
with a view to getting the Korean peninsula issue back 
on the track of peaceful dialogue as soon as possible.
