S / P V. 8 0 1 9
Non-proliferation/Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
05/08/2017

Mr.  Liu  Jieyi  
(China)  (
spoke  in  Chinese
):
The  Security  Council  resolutions  on  this  subject  contain  
explicit   provisions   against   any   launches   by   the   
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea using ballistic-
missile   technology.   China   opposes   the   Democratic   
People’s   Republic   of   Korea’s   launching   activities,   
which violate Council resolutions and defy the will of 
the entire international community.
We  have  always  insisted  on  the  importance  of  
denuclearizing the Korean peninsula, upholding peace 
and  stability  there  and  seeking  a  solution  through  
dialogue and consultation. We have always been firmly 
opposed to chaos and conflict on the peninsula. In our 
view, that is what resolution 2371 (2017) is all about. Its 
unanimous adoption by the Council demonstrates that 
the international community has a united position with 
regard to the nuclear issue on the peninsula.
There    are    three    major    components    to    this    
resolution. First, it sets out further sanctions targeting 
the  nuclear  and  missile  programme  of  the  Democratic  
People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  Secondly,  the  resolution  
does  not  intend  to  impact  negatively  activities  that  
are not prohibited by the resolution, such as economic 
activities  and  cooperation,  or  food  and  humanitarian  
assistance.   Thirdly,   it   calls   for   the   resumption   of   
the  Six-Party  Talks,  commits  to  finding  a  solution  
through  peaceful,  diplomatic  and  political  means,  and  
stresses  the  importance  of  de-escalating  tensions  on  
the peninsula by the parties concerned. China believes 
that  these  are  part  and  parcel  of  this  resolution,  and  
all  parties  should  implement  the  provisions  contained  
therein fully and earnestly.
China has been making tireless efforts to promote 
the  denuclearization  of  the  peninsula  and  to  uphold  
peace and stability there. On 4 July, China and Russia 
issued  a  joint  statement  on  the  issue  of  the  Korean  
peninsula.  Both  of  our  countries  put  forward  a  road  
map  for  the  resolution  of  this  issue,  which  is  based  
respectively on China’s idea of a due approach, which 
calls  for  parallel  efforts,  while  moving  forward  with  
both  the  denuclearization  of  the  peninsula  and  the  
establishment  of  a  peace  mechanism  based  on  the  
suspension for suspension initiative, which calls for the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  suspend  its  
nuclear and missile activities, and for the United States 
and the Republic of Korea to suspend their large-scale 
military  exercises,  as  well  as  on  Russia’s  step-by-step  
approach. This China-Russia joint initiative is realistic 
and  feasible.  It  aims  to  tackle  both  the  symptoms  and  
the  root  causes  of  the  problem  and  to  seek  a  solution  
through  an  integrated  approach.  We  hope  that  this  
initiative will receive a response and support from the 
relevant parties.
China  has  taken  note  that  the  United  States  has  
recently  indicated  once  again  that  it  is  not  seeking  a  
regime change or a regime collapse in the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, and that it is in no hurry to 
push for the reunification of the peninsula. The United 
States  has  also  indicated  that  its  troops  will  not  push  
through  the  thirty-eighth  parallel.  It  is  our  hope  that  
the  United  States  will  translate  these  “four  no’s”  into  
concrete   policies   towards   the   Democratic   People’s   
Republic  of  Korea.  Beefing  up  military  deployment  
on  the  peninsula  is  not  in  the  interest  of  realizing  
denuclearization there or of maintaining regional peace 
and  stability.  The  deployment  of  the  Terminal  High  
Altitude Area Defence missile system will not bring a 
solution to the issue of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea’s nuclear testing and missile launching. What 
it will do is seriously undermine the strategic balance 
of the region. As such, it is detrimental to the strategic 
security interest of regional countries, including China.
China  strongly  urges  the  parties  concerned  to  
halt  the  process  of  this  deployment  and  to  dismantle  
relevant   equipment.   Realizing   denuclearization   and   
durable  peace  and  stability  on  the  Korean  peninsula  
is  in  the  interests  of  all  the  parties.  China  urges  the  
Democratic   People’s   Republic   of   Korea   to   respect   
Council  resolutions  and  to  cease  taking  actions  that  
might further escalate tensions on the peninsula.
We hope that the parties concerned will immediately 
take  effective  action  to  prevent  the  situation  from  
further escalating, create conditions for the resumption 
of talks and undertake efforts to bring, at an early date, 
the nuclear issue of the peninsula back to the right track, 
that  of  seeking  a  peaceful  solution  through  dialogue  
and consultation.
