29/08/2017
Non-proliferation/Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
S/PV.8034

Mr.  Liu  Jieyi  
(China)  (
spoke  in  Chinese
):
The  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  contain  clear  
provisions regarding the Democratic People’s Republic 
of   Korea’s   launch   activities   with   ballistic   missile   
technology. China opposes such launch activities by the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, in violation of 
Council resolutions. We call on the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of  
the  resolutions  and  on  all  relevant  parties  to  exercise  
restraint,   avoid   mutually   provocative   actions   that   
might   exacerbate   the   situation   in   the   region,   and   
work  together  to  safeguard  peace  and  stability  on  the  
Korean peninsula.
Resolution 2371 (2017), adopted by the Council on 
5  August,  provides  for  further  sanctions  against  the  
nuclear  and  missile  programmes  of  the  Democratic  
People’s Republic of Korea. It calls for the resumption 
of  the  Six-Party  Talks,  pledges  to  seek  a  peaceful,  
diplomatic   and   political   solution   to   the   problem,   
and   underscores   the   importance   of   de-escalation   
efforts  on  the  part  of  the  relevant  parties.  All  parties  
involved   should   implement   the   relevant   provisions   
of  the  resolutions  of  the  Council  in  a  comprehensive,  
integrated  manner,  avoid  any  rhetoric  or  action  that  
might exacerbate tensions on the peninsula, and create 
the conditions necessary for the resumption of dialogue.
The  suspension-for-suspension  proposal  and  the  
dual-track  approach  put  forward  by  China  represent  a  
realistic and feasible formula for the proper settlement 
of the issue on the Korean peninsula. We hope that all 
the  relevant  parties  will  give  it  serious  consideration  
and  respond  positively,  working  with  China  to  open  
effective paths for the settlement of the peninsula issue. 
China  has  always  been  committed  to  the  goal  of  the  
denuclearization  of  the  peninsula,  the  maintenance  of  
peace and stability on the peninsula, and the settlement 
of the issue through dialogue and consultations.
China  is  opposed  to  any  chaos  or  war  on  the  
peninsula.     Enhancing     military     deployment     on     
the  peninsula  will  not  help  to  achieve  the  goal  of  
denuclearization or regional stability. The deployment 
of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system in 
North-East Asia severely jeopardizes regional strategic 
balance and undermines the strategic security interests 
of   all   regional   countries,   including   China.   It   will   
further escalate tensions on the peninsula, making the 
issue more complicated and intractable.
China   urges   the   relevant   parties   to   halt   the   
deployment  process  and  dismantle  related  facilities  
immediately.  China  also  urges  countries  to  end  the  
practice of resorting to domestic legislation to impose 
unilateral sanctions on individuals and entities in other 
countries.   Achieving   denuclearization   and   lasting   
peace and security on the peninsula is in the interests of 
all parties. We hope that the relevant parties can, along 
with China, play their due role and assume their share 
of  responsibility  to  restore  the  peninsula  issue  to  the  
right track of peaceful resolution through dialogue.
