04/09/2017
Non-proliferation/Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
S/PV.8039

Mr.  Liu  Jieyi  
(China)   (
spoke  in  Chinese
): 
On  3   September,   despite   the   broad   opposition   of   the   
international   community,   the   Democratic   People’s   
Republic of Korea disregarded the relevant resolutions 
of  the  Security  Council  and  once  again  conducted  
a  nuclear  test.  The  Chinese  Government  resolutely  
opposes   and   strongly   condemns   the   nuclear   test   
conducted  by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  
Korea  in  violation  of  Security  Council  resolutions.  
Achieving the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula 
and  maintaining  the  nuclear  non-proliferation  system  
and  peace  and  stability  in  North-East  Asia  constitute  
the  firm  stand  of  the  Chinese  Government,  as  well  as  
the  overall  aspiration  of  the  international  community.  
We  strongly  urge  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  
of  Korea  to  face  up  squarely  to  the  firm  will  of  
the   international   community   on   the   issue   of   the   
denuclearization  of  the  peninsula  and  earnestly  abide  
by the relevant resolutions of the Council; stop taking 
actions  that  are  wrong,  that  lead  to  the  deterioration  
of  the  situation  and  that  are  not  in  line  with  its  own  
interests; and to return to the track of solving the issue 
through dialogue.
The situation on the Korean peninsula continues to 
deteriorate  as  we  speak,  falling  into  a  vicious  circle.  
The   peninsula   issue   must   be   resolved   peacefully.   
China will never allow chaos and war on the peninsula. 
The  parties  concerned  must  strengthen  their  sense  of  
urgency;  take  due  responsibility;  play  their  due  roles;  
take  practical  measures;  make  joint  efforts  to  ease  
the  situation  together;  restart  the  dialogue  and  talks;  
and  prevent  further  deterioration  of  the  situation  on  
the peninsula.
China  and  Russia  proposed  a  two-track  approach  
that promotes the denuclearization of the peninsula and 
the establishment of a peace mechanism in parallel. The 
suspension-for-suspension initiative, which calls for the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  suspend  its  
nuclear and missile activities and for the United States 
and the Republic of Korea to suspend their large-scale 
military  exercises,  and  the  step-by-step  concept  by  
Russia  are  the  basis  on  which  both  countries  jointly  
proposed  a  road  map  to  resolve  the  peninsula  issue.  
That  joint  initiative  by  China  and  Russia  is  practical  
and feasible and is aimed at addressing the most urgent 
security concerns of the parties concerned; easing the 
tension as soon as possible; preventing the continuous 
escalation of the situation; achieving through dialogue 
the denuclearization of the peninsula; and maintaining 
the peace and stability of the peninsula and the region. 
We  hope  that  the  parties  concerned  will  seriously  
consider that proposal and actively respond to it.
China  calls  upon  the  international  community  to  
jointly  and  comprehensively  implement  the  relevant  
resolutions of the Security Council on the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  firmly  push  forward  the  
goal  of  denuclearization  of  the  peninsula  and  firmly  
maintain the peace and stability of the peninsula.
