S / P V. 8 0 4 2
Non-proliferation/Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
11/09/2017


Mr.  Liu  Jieyi  
(China): 
On  3  September,  while  
defying  the  general  opposition  on  the  part  of  the  
international   community,   the   Democratic   People’s   
Republic   of   Korea   conducted   yet   another   nuclear   
test.  The  Chinese  Government  strongly  opposes  and  
condemns such an act.
China is consistently committed to denuclearizing 
the  Korean  peninsula,  ensuring  peace  and  stability  
on   the   peninsula   and   resolving   the   issue   through   
dialogue   and   consultation.   The   Security   Council’s   
adoption of resolution 2375 (2017) today reflects those 
three  commitments  and  the  united  position  of  the  
international  community  in  opposing  the  Democratic  
People’s Republic of Korea’s development of its nuclear 
and  ballistic  missile  capabilities  and  preserving  the  
international non-proliferation regime.
China  urges  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  
Korea to earnestly heed the expectations and will of the 
international  community  to  halt  the  country’s  nuclear  
and  missile  development,  effectively  abide  by  and  
implement  the  Council’s  resolutions,  stop  any  further  
nuclear and missile tests and effectively work towards 
denuclearization.  At  the  same  time,  the  resolution  
reiterates  the  need  to  maintain  peace  and  stability  on  
the peninsula and in North-East Asia. It also commits 
to  resolving  the  issue  through  peaceful,  diplomatic  
and  political  means  and  supports  the  resumption  of  
the Six-Party Talks, as well as the commitment voiced 
in  the  statement  of  19  September  2005,  while  also  
emphasizing  the  importance  of  de-escalating  tension  
on  the  peninsula.  All  parties  should  effectively  and  
comprehensively implement the relevant provisions set 
out  in  Security  Council  resolutions.  The  nuclear  issue  
on  the  Korean  peninsula  must  be  resolved  peacefully.  
Comprehensive measures must be taken to balance the 
legitimate security concerns of all parties.
China   has   made   unremitting   efforts   towards   
denuclearization  and  maintaining  peace  and  stability  
on  the  peninsula.  On  4  July,  China  and  Russia  issued  
a joint statement on the issue of the Korean peninsula, 
based  on  China’s  proposal  of  a  dual-track  approach  
of  promoting  the  denuclearization  of  the  peninsula  
through a suspension-for-suspension approach.
China  calls  on  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  
of  Korea  to  halt  its  nuclear  and  missile  activities,  and  
on  the  United  States  and  the  Republic  of  Korea  to  
suspend  their  large-scale  military  exercises,  in  line  
with  Russia’s  proposal  for  a  step-by-step  approach.  
China  and  Russia  have  formulated  a  road  map  for  
the  solution  of  the  Korean  peninsula  issue.  The  joint  
Chinese and Russian initiative is realistic and feasible. 
It aims to tackle both the symptoms and root causes of 
the  problem,  so  as  to  advance  the  peaceful  settlement  
of the Korean peninsula nuclear issue and maintain the 
peace  and  stability  of  the  peninsula.  In  that  vein,  we  
hope  to  obtain  a  positive  response  and  backing  from  
relevant parties.
We  hope  that  the  United  States  will  incorporate  
the  following  four  “don’ts”  into  its  relevant  policies  
regarding  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea:  
don’t seek regime change; don’t incite a collapse of the 
regime; don’t seek an accelerated reunification effort of 
the  peninsula;  and  don’t  send  its  military  north  of  the  
thirty-eighth parallel.
China is a close neighbour of the Korean peninsula.
 We 
have been consistently committed to its denuclearization 
and are against any war or chaos on the territory. The 
strengthening  of  military  deployment  on  the  Korean  
peninsula and the goal of denuclearization and reaching 
peace and stability run counter to each other.
The  deployment  of  the  Terminal  High  Altitude  
Area Defense system severely undermines the reaching 
of a strategic balance. It also undermines the strategic 
security  interests  of  the  countries  in  the  region,  of  
which China is part. China strongly urges the relevant 
parties  to  halt  its  deployment  and  remove  all  related  
equipment.  At  present,  the  situation  on  the  peninsula  
is  sensitive,  complex  and  grave.  The  relevant  parties  
should remain calm and avoid a rhetoric or action that 
could aggravate the tensions.
The priority at present is 
to comprehensively and strictly implement the relevant 
Security Council resolutions, and the parties concerned 
should resume talks and negotiations sooner rather than 
later, endeavour to advance the denuclearization process 
and maintain peace and stability on the peninsula. The 
Council should shoulder its historical responsibility in 
this regard.
China   will   continue   to   advance   dialogue   and   
consultations,  work  together  with  all  relevant  parties  
and  make  a  positive  and  constructive  effort  to  ensure  
that  an  appropriate  settlement  is  reached  at  an  early  
date so as to resolve the current issue on the peninsula, 
attain denuclearization and ensure long-term peace and 
stability on the peninsula.
