29/11/2017
Non-proliferation/Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
S/PV.8118


Mr.  Wu  Haitao  
(China)   (
spoke  in  Chinese
):
I  wish  to  thank  Under-Secretary-General  Feltman  and  
Ambassador Cardi for their briefings.
The  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  contain  
explicit  provisions  on  launches  by  the  Democratic  
People’s   Republic   of   Korea   using   ballistic   missile   
technology.  China  expresses  its  great  concern  over  
and  its  opposition  to  the  latest  missile  launch  by  the  
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  We  strongly  
urge  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  
comply  with  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  
and  to  cease  actions  that  escalate  the  tensions  on  the  
Korean peninsula.
In  the  recent  past,  the  overall  situation  on  the  
peninsula  was  stable,  which  provided  a  window  of  
opportunity  for  diplomatic  efforts.  Regrettably,  that  
window failed to lead to a resumption of dialogue and 
negotiations. The nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula 
has  continued  for  more  than  two  decades.  During  
that  period,  the  most  valuable  experience  gained  was  
that  when  the  parties  moved  towards  each  other  and  
engaged in honest interaction, there was the possibility 
of  reaching  an  agreement.  And  the  most  important  
lesson was that when the parties adopted a tough stance 
and misjudged each other, the chances for peace would 
escape them.
This  year,  the  Security  Council  has  unamimously  
adopted   resolutions   2356   (2017),   2371   (2017)   and   
2375 (2017). Those resolutions demonstrate the united 
position  of  the  international  community  against  the  
development  by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  
Korea of nuclear and ballistic missile capacities and of 
upholding  the  international  non-proliferation  regime.  
At  the  same  time,  they  underscore  the  importance  
of   the   parties   concerned   reducing   tension   on   the   
peninsula  and  reiterate  the  need  to  maintain  peace  
and  stability  on  the  Korean  peninsula  and  in  North-
East  Asia  as  a  whole  and  the  commitment  to  seeking  
a  settlement  by  means  of  peaceful  diplomatic  and  
political negotiations, while emphasizing that people’s 
livelihoods  and  the  humanitarian  assistance  efforts  in  
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea should not 
be negatively impacted.
In view of the current grave situation on the Korean 
peninsula, the top priority is for all parties concerned to 
show restraint, implement comprehensively and strictly 
the relevant Security Council resolutions, and strive for 
an early resumption of dialogue and negotiations.
China  has  always  supported  the  denuclearization  
of the Korean peninsula as well as peace and stability 
thereon.  China  has  consistently  advocated  dialogue  
and  negotiations  as  a  means  of  achieving  a  settlement  
and   prevent   conflict   and   chaos   on   the   peninsula,   
and  it  has  worked  tirelessly  towards  that  goal.  China  
has  put  forward  a  proposal  for  the  suspension  by  the  
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  of  its  nuclear  
and missile activities, as well as the suspension by the 
United States and the Republic of Korea of large-scale 
joint military exercises.
China is proposing a dual-track approach aimed at 
promoting parallel progress in denuclearization and the 
establishment of a peace mechanism on the peninsula. 
The Russian Federation, too, has put forward the idea of 
a phased approach to the settlement of the issues facing 
the Korean peninsula.
On the basis of the aforementioned proposals, China 
and  the  Russian  Federation  issued  a  joint  statement  
on  4  July  proposing  a  road  map  for  the  settlement  of  
the  problems  facing  the  Korean  peninsula.  The  joint  
initiative by China and Russia is practical and feasible 
and is aimed at promoting the peaceful settlement of the 
nuclear issue on the peninsula and at maintaining peace 
and stability there. As such, we hope that it will elicit a 
response and support from the parties concerned. In the 
current  situation,  the  Security  Council  must  shoulder  
its  historical  responsibility  by  prompting  the  parties  
to take integrated measures to settle problems through 
peaceful  diplomatic  and  political  means  and  maintain  
peace and stability on the Korean peninsula.
China  will  continue  to  implement  the  relevant  
Security  Council  resolutions  comprehensively  and  in  
their entirety and, together with the parties concerned, 
will continue to play an active and constructive role in 
seeking  an  appropriate  settlement  of  the  nuclear  issue  
on the Korean peninsula and an early realization of the 
denuclearization  of  and  long-term  peace  and  stability  
on  the  peninsula.  China  expects  that  all  the  parties  
concerned,  in  particular  the  main  parties,  will  make  
efforts to that end by honouring their commitments and 
playing a constructive role.
China   believes   that   the   work   of   the   Security   
Council  Committee  established  pursuant  to  resolution  
1718  (2006)  should  be  conducive  to  the  realization  
of  the  denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula,  the  
maintenance  of  peace  and  stability  on  the  peninsula,  
and the promotion of dialogue and negotiations among 
the parties concerned, with a view to finding a solution. 
The  Panel  of  Experts  must  act  in  strict  compliance  
with  its  mandate  and  conduct  its  work  on  the  basis  of  
the  principles  of  objectivity  and  impartiality  and  of  
substantiated evidence. It is China’s consistent view that 
the Security Council sanctions against the Democratic 
People’s   Republic   of   Korea   should   not   negatively   
impact the relevant humanitarian assistance activities.
