S/PV.8130
The situation in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
11/12/2017

Mr.   Wu   Haitao   
(China)   (
spoke   in   Chinese
): 
China  is  opposed  to  the  Security  Council’s  proposed  
consideration  of  the  human  rights  situation  in  the  
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  China  has  
consistently  opposed  the  Council’s  involvement  in  the  
human  rights  issues  of  other  countries.  The  Charter  
of the United Nations has clear provisions with regard 
to  the  functions  and  division  of  labour  of  the  main  
organs of the Organization. The primary responsibility 
of  the  Council  is  to  maintain  international  peace  and  
security,  and  its  job  is  therefore  to  address  threats  to  
that. The Security Council is not the appropriate forum 
for debating human rights issues, nor should we allow 
human rights issues to be politicized.
China  is  committed  to  the  denuclearization  of  the  
Korean peninsula and to upholding peace and stability 
there  and  resolving  relevant  issues  through  dialogue  
and  consultation.  We  are  opposed  to  war  and  conflict  
on the peninsula. The current situation on the peninsula 
remains    complex,    sensitive    and    grave.    Council    
members  and  the  parties  concerned  should  engage  in  
seeking  ways  to  ease  tensions  on  the  peninsula  and  
avoid  mutual  provocation  and  words  or  actions  that  
might further escalate the situation.
A discussion by the Council of human rights issues 
in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  would  
run   counter   to   the   aforementioned   objectives   and   
be  counterproductive.  China  hopes  that  the  parties  
concerned  will  exercise  restraint  and  keep  the  overall  
situation  in  mind.  They  should  move  towards  rather  
than  away  from  one  another,  implement  the  relevant  
Council  resolutions  comprehensively  and  fully,  and  
give  serious  consideration  to  China’s  suspension-for-
suspension initiative so as to create an environment and 
conditions  conducive  to  a  resumption  of  negotiations.  
China  hopes  that  the  parties  concerned  will  honour  
their  commitments  effectively  and  play  a  constructive  
role  in  maintaining  the  denuclearization  process  and  
peace and stability on the peninsula.
