S/PV.8137
Non-proliferation/Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
15/12/2017

Mr. Wu Haitao 
(China) (
spoke in Chinese
):
China would like to thank Secretary-General Guterres for his 
briefing.  
China   firmly   opposes   the   development   by   the   
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  of  its  nuclear  
and   ballistic   missile   programmes,   which   are   in   
violation  of  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  
China urges the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
to abide by those resolutions.
Since  the  beginning  of  2017,  the  situation  on  the  
Korean  peninsula  has  been  one  of  constant  tension.  
While  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  
has  continued  to  conduct  nuclear  tests  and  missile  
launches,  in  defiance  of  the  universal  opposition  by  
the  international  community,  the  parties  concerned  
have continued to expand military exercises and scale 
up  their  shows  of  force.  The  escalation  of  tension  on  
the  Korean  peninsula,  which  has  reached  the  point  of  
risking spiralling out of control, is not in the interests 
of any parties.
The  nuclear  issue  of  the  Korean  peninsula  has  
lasted  for  over  two  decades.  It  has  deep  historical  
causes  and  takes  place  within  a  grave  and  complex  
context.  Reviewing  the  evolution  of  the  nuclear  issue  
of  the  Korean  peninsula,  we  can  see  that,  when  the  
parties  concerned  have  tried  to  converge  and  respect  
one another’s concerns, it has been possible to achieve 
results. On the other hand, when the parties have taken 
stubborn  stances  and  disregarded  the  security  of  the  
other side, it has led to the deterioration of the situation. 
The current situation on the Korean peninsula is mired 
in a vicious cycle of tough posturing and confrontation, 
which is hardly a cause for optimism about the future. 
However,  the  hope  for  peace  is  not  totally  lost.  There  
is  still  a  possibility  of  negotiations.  The  option  of  
resorting  to  the  use  of  force  is  an  unacceptable  one.  
China believes that all of the parties concerned should 
keep in mind the broader goal of maintaining peace and 
stability  on  the  Korean  peninsula,  judge  the  situation  
calmly, make wise choices and take practical steps.
First,  it  is  necessary  to  put  an  immediate  end  
to   rhetoric   and   actions   that   are   unfavourable   to   
denuclearization  and  the  peace  and  security  of  the  
Korean  peninsula.  It  is  also  necessary  to  ease  the  
situation as soon as possible. The tough positions that 
have been taken by the parties concerned serve only to 
escalate tensions, deepen divisions and decrease mutual 
trust.  Therefore,  such  positions  are  not  helpful  to  the  
security  of  all  parties.  The  parties  concerned  should  
keep calm and exercise restraint in order to prevent the 
situation on the Korean peninsula from worsening and 
getting out of control. They should create the necessary 
conditions for turning the situation around.
Secondly,  it  is  necessary  to  act  in  accordance  
with  the  provisions  and  spirit  of  the  Security  Council  
resolutions relating to the  Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea and push for an appropriate settlement of the 
nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula. Since 2016, the 
Council has unanimously adopted a series of resolutions 
on   the   Democratic   People’s   Republic   of   Korea.   
Those  resolutions  represent  the  common  will  of  the  
international  community  and  constitute  international  
obligations  that  must  be  observed  by  all  parties.  All  
parties must comprehensively implement the resolutions 
relating to the  Democratic People’s Republic of Korea in 
their entirety; strengthen non-proliferation measures in 
order to curb the nuclear and missile programmes of the  
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea;  and  actively  
push for a peaceful settlement through diplomatic and 
political  means.  At  the  same  time,  there  is  a  need  to  
avoid negatively impacting the livelihoods of the people 
of the  Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the 
humanitarian assistance activities that are taking place 
in  the  country.  Unilateral  sanctions  measures  without  
the  authorization  of  the  Security  Council  undermine  
the unity of the Council and hurt the legitimate rights 
and interests of other countries. Therefore, such actions 
should be abandoned.
Thirdly, it is necessary for all sides to shoulder their 
respective  responsibilities  and  fulfil  their  incumbent  
obligations  in  earnest.  The  current  situation  on  the  
Korean peninsula has not been caused by any individual 
party  alone.  It  is  not  helpful  to  impose  responsibility  
for resolving the problem on a single party. The parties 
concerned  should  try  to  converge  instead  of  engaging  
in mutual blaming. They should also not try to abdicate 
their own responsibility and shift the blame onto others. 
The United States has committed to not seeking regime 
change, not pursuing the overthrow of the Government 
of  the    Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  not  
accelerating the reunification of the Korean peninsula 
and  not  moving  its  troops  beyond  the  thirty-eighth  
parallel. We hope that the United States will turn those 
four commitments into concrete actions.
Fourthly,  it  is  necessary  to  remain  committed  to  
peacefully settling the situation and resuming dialogue 
and  negotiations  as  soon  as  possible.  Security  is  at  
the  core  of  the  nuclear  issue  of  the  Korean  peninsula.  
As  such,  the  fundamental  solution  lies  in  addressing  
the  security  concerns  of  all  parties,  including  the    
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, in a balanced 
manner. There is no military option with respect to the 
settlement of the nuclear issue of the Korean peninsula. 
Resorting  to  force  will  only  bring  about  disastrous  
consequences   for   the   peninsula.   Sanctions   are   a   
means,  not  an  end.  History  shows  that  dialogue  and  
negotiations are a fundamental way to ease tensions and 
advance the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula. 
The  parties  concerned  should  endeavour  to  turn  the  
pressure of sanctions into the driving force behind the 
resumption  of  dialogue  and  negotiations.  They  should  
get  the  nuclear  issue  of  the  Korean  peninsula  back  on  
the right track of peaceful settlement through dialogue 
and negotiations at an early date.
As  a  close  neighbour  of  the  Korean  peninsula,  
China has persisted in promoting the denuclearization 
of the peninsula, preserving peace and stability on the 
peninsula  and  seeking  a  settlement  to  the  situation  
through  dialogue  and  negotiations.  China  is  opposed  
to conflicts and chaos on the Korean peninsula. China 
has always supported and comprehensively and strictly 
implemented  Security  Council  resolutions  relating  to  
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  By  doing  
so,  China  has  made  greater  efforts  and  paid  a  higher  
price  than  anyone  else.  It  is  irresponsible  to  doubt  or  
challenge what China has done. 
In  view  of  the  current  situation  on  the  peninsula,  
China has put forward the dual suspension proposal that 
would entail the suspension by the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  of  its  nuclear  and  missile  activities  
along with the suspension by the United States and the 
Republic of Korea of large-scale military exercises. We 
have  proposed  the  dual-track  approach  of  promoting  
parallel  progress  in  denuclearization  efforts  and  the  
establishment of a peace mechanism on the peninsula. 
The Russian Federation has also put forward the idea of 
a phased approach to the settlement of the issues of the 
Korean peninsula.
On  the  basis  of  those  proposals,  China  and  the  
Russian  Federation  issued  a  joint  statement  on  4  July  
that  proposed  a  road  map  for  the  settlement  of  the  
problems on the Korean peninsula. The joint proposal of 
China and Russia is practical and feasible and is aimed 
at  promoting  the  peaceful  settlement  of  the  nuclear  
issue  of  the  Korean  peninsula  and  the  maintenance  of  
peace and stability on the peninsula. As such, we hope 
that the proposal will elicit responses and support from 
the parties concerned.
Due to historical reasons, the Korean peninsula is 
still under the shadow of the Cold War. That is the root 
cause of the protracted nature of, and lack of settlement 
for,  the  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula.
The 
parties   concerned   must   reject   Cold   War   thinking   
in   all   its   forms,   establish   a   concept   of   common,   
comprehensive,  cooperative  and  sustainable  security,  
and  seek  a  peaceful  settlement  to  the  Korean  nuclear  
issue  through  political  and  diplomatic  means,  so  as  
to  realize,  at  an  early  date,  the  denuclearization  of  
the  Korean  peninsula  and  the  long-term  security  and  
tranquillity  of  North-East  Asia  for  the  benefit  of  the  
people of the countries in the region.
China  stands  ready  to  work  together  with  the  
parties  concerned  and  the  international  community  to  
continue to play a positive and constructive role for the 
realization of this goal.
