S/PV.8151
Non-proliferation/Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
22/12/2017

Mr.   Wu   Haitao   
(China)   (
spoke   in   Chinese
): 
Resolution   2397   (2017),   adopted   by   the   Security   
Council  today,  reflects  the  unanimous  position  of  the  
international community in opposing the development 
of  nuclear  and  ballistic  missile  capabilities  by  the  
Democratic    People’s    Republic    of    Korea    and    in    
maintaining the international nuclear non-proliferation 
regime.    China    urges    the    Democratic    People’s    
Republic  of  Korea  to  seriously  heed  the  demands  of  
the  international  community,  abide  by  and  implement  
the   Security   Council   resolutions   and   refrain   from   
conducting any further nuclear and missile tests.
At  the  same  time,  the  resolution  underscores  that  
the  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula  need  to  be  
resolved peacefully by political and diplomatic means. 
It  also  stipulates  that  the  measures  it  contains  are  
not  intended  to  have  an  adverse  impact  on  economic  
activities  and  cooperation,  food  aid  or  humanitarian  
assistance.   China   hopes   that   all   the   parties   will   
implement the resolution fully and comprehensively.
At  present,  the  situation  on  the  Korean  peninsula  
is   one   of   constant   tension.   While   the   Democratic   
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has  continued  to  conduct  
nuclear  tests  and  missile  launches,  in  defiance  of  the  
universal  opposition  by  the  international  community,  
the  other  parties  concerned  have  continued  to  expand  
military  exercises  and  scale  up  their  shows  of  force.  
The  escalation  of  tension  on  the  Korean  peninsula,  
which has reached the point of risking spiralling out of 
control, is not in the interests of any party.
The nuclear issue of the Korean peninsula has lasted 
for more than two decades. Reviewing the evolution of 
the nuclear issue of the Korean peninsula, We can see 
that  dialogue  and  negotiations  have  led  to  progress  in  
the  denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula  and  the  
improvement of relations among the parties concerned, 
while tough posturing and confrontation have impeded 
denuclearization and resulted in deteriorating relations 
among  the  parties  concerned.  It  is  imperative  to  learn  
from past good practices and mistakes.
The nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula should 
be solved peacefully and comprehensively. Security is at 
the heart of the nuclear issue on the peninsula while the 
fundamental  solution  rests  on  addressing  the  security  
concerns   of   all   parties,   including   the   Democratic   
People’s   Republic   of   Korea.   There   is   no   military   
option  for  settling  the  nuclear  issue  on  the  peninsula.  
Resorting to force will only lead to disaster. Sanctions 
are  only  a  means  to  an  end.  One  should  not  expect  to  
settle the issue through unilateral sanctions or pressure. 
History  has  proven  that  dialogue  and  negotiations  are  
the  fundamental  way  in  which  to  de-escalate  tension  
and promote denuclearization on the peninsula.
To that end, it is imperative to end immediately all 
rhetoric  and  action  that  are  detrimental  to  achieving  
denuclearization, peace and stability on the peninsula. 
In order to de-escalate the situation as soon as possible, 
it is important to strictly follow the letter and spirit of 
the relevant Security Council resolutions to arrive at an 
acceptable settlement. All parties should shoulder their 
respective responsibilities and effectively assume their 
obligations.  It  is  imperative  to  follow  the  overarching  
direction  leading  towards  a  peaceful  settlement  and  
resume dialogue and negotiations at an early date. Any 
unilateral sanctions imposed outside the purview of the 
Security Council would only undermine the Council’s 
unity and jeopardize the legitimate rights and interests 
of other countries, and should therefore be rejected.
China  has  always  advocated  for  denuclearization  
of  the  peninsula,  its  peace  and  stability,  and  finding  
a  solution  through  dialogue  and  consultations.  We  are  
opposed to turmoil and war on the peninsula. China has 
made  enormous  efforts  to  reach  settlements  through  
dialogue and negotiations, and has paid a higher price 
than  all  other  parties  in  implementing  the  relevant  
Security Council resolutions.
In  view  of  the  situation  on  the  peninsula,  China  
has  proposed  the  suspension-for-suspension  initiative,  
which  would  entail  the  suspension  by  the  Democratic  
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  of  its  nuclear  and  missile  
activities along with the suspension by the United States 
and Republic of Korea of large-scale military exercises. 
We  have  also  proposed  the  dual-track  approach  of  
promoting    parallel    progress    in    denuclearization    
efforts  and  the  establishment  of  a  peace  mechanism  
on  the  peninsula.  Russia  has  also  put  forward  the  
idea  of  a  phased  approach  for  that  purpose.  Based  on  
those  proposals,  China  and  Russia  have  issued  a  joint  
statement  setting  out  a  road  map  for  resolving  the  
issue. The joint proposal of China and Russia is aimed 
at peacefully settling the issue and the maintenance of 
peace  and  stability  on  the  peninsula.  Accordingly,  we  
hope that the proposal will elicit responses and support 
from the concerned parties.
If the situation on the peninsula is allowed to remain 
stuck in the current vicious cycle, the road will continue 
to narrow. A peaceful settlement will be reached only 
when the parties meet each other halfway, in dialogue 
and consultations. The parties concerned should fulfil 
their  historical  responsibilities  and  relaunch  dialogue  
and negotiations as soon as possible so as to settle the 
issue appropriately and at an early date. China is ready 
to  join  with  the  international  community,  persuade  
the  parties  to  return  to  the  proper  track  of  peaceful  
settlement, and play a positive and constructive role in 
achieving denuclearization, lasting peace and stability 
on the peninsula.
